mind your decisions I'm presh tall
Walker start with rectangle ABCD
construct an overlapping semicircle CPS
as shown
if CQ has a length equal to 10 the
question is what is the area of
rectangle ABCD I adapted this problem
from Aman's maths blogs pause the video
if you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem we will
get started by considering Oh the center
of the semicircle if the semi circle has
a radius equal to R then OS is equal to
R and CD is also equal to R that's one
side of the rectangle we also have OQ is
equal to R and OC is equal to R now
suppose that the rectangle has another
side length ad that's equal to X that
means BC also has a length equal to X
and OB has a length of X minus R will
now consider that the area of the
rectangle will be one side multiplied by
its other side so it will be equal to x
times R we want to figure out x times R
and this is how we'll do it
well consider the right triangle obq we
can solve for BQ using the Gogu theorem
BQ squared is equal to R squared minus
the quantity X minus r squared well
simplify this a little bit and we get B
q squared is equal to 2x R minus x
squared we'll put this equation to the
side we then go back to the rectangle
and we consider the right triangle cbq
we can again solve for BQ by the Gogu
theorem BQ squared is equal to 10
squared minus x squared we thus have two
equations for B Q squared we can set
them equal to each other
now recall we want to solve for the area
which is x multiplied by R in this
equation the negative x squared terms
will cancel out so we get 2x R is equal
to 10 squared we then divide both sides
by 2 and we solve that X R is equal to
50 and that's the area of the rectangle
incredible thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for yours
[Music]